# python-notes
This repository is basically a list of references for me to keep track of all the Python tips, tricks and hacks that I have encountered during my work.

## Executing your Python
https://realpython.com/run-python-scripts/

## Operators and Expressions in Python
https://realpython.com/python-operators-expressions/

## Dictionaries, Maps, and Hash Tables in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/python-dictionaries-maps-and-hashtables

## Sets and Multisets in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/sets-and-multiset-in-python

## Array Data Structures in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/python-arrays

## Records, Structs, and Data Transfer Objects in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/records-structs-and-data-transfer-objects-in-python

## Linked Lists in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/python-linked-list

## Supercharge your classes with super()
https://realpython.com/python-super/

## Memory Management for Mutable & Immutable Objects
https://medium.com/@tyastropheus/tricky-python-i-memory-management-for-mutable-immutable-objects-21507d1e5b95

## Parameter Passing for Mutable & Immutable Objects
https://medium.com/@tyastropheus/tricky-python-ii-parameter-passing-for-mutable-immutable-objects-10e968cbda35

## Is Python pass-by-reference or pass-by-value?
https://robertheaton.com/2014/02/09/pythons-pass-by-object-reference-as-explained-by-philip-k-dick/

## Stacks in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/stacks-in-python

## Queues in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/queues-in-python

## Managing multiple Python versions and environments in Python
https://realpython.com/intro-to-pyenv/

## NamedTuples in Python
https://www.lalogiadepython.com/2019/01/18/namedtuples-easier-way/

## Primer on Python Decorators
https://realpython.com/primer-on-python-decorators/

## Python Inner Functions and Closures
https://realpython.com/inner-functions-what-are-they-good-for/

## Introduction to Python Generators
https://realpython.com/introduction-to-python-generators/

## Python Virtual Environments: A Primer
https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/

## Python List Comprehensions
https://treyhunner.com/2015/12/python-list-comprehensions-now-in-color/  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5_cJIcgM7rw&feature=youtu.be

## Working with IP Addresses in Python
https://dbader.org/blog/python-ipaddress-module

## Understanding Python Scoping better
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/291978/short-description-of-the-scoping-rules/23471004

# Tips, Tricks and Hacks

## Aligning large strings right
http://wordaligned.org/articles/aligning-the-first-line-of-a-triplequoted-string-in-python

## Python’s str.isdigit vs. str.isnumeric
https://blog.lerner.co.il/pythons-str-isdigit-vs-str-isnumeric

## Understanding Memory Management of Python objects
https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/understand-how-much-memory-your-python-objects-use--cms-25609

## Python’s “else” clause for loops
https://blog.lerner.co.il/pythons-else-clause-for-loops/

## Monkey patching with Python
https://mypythonlessons.blogspot.com/2019/03/monkey-patching-in-python-explained.html

## Pretty-print your dict
https://coderwall.com/p/gmxnqg/pretty-printing-a-python-dictionary

## Modify code without breaking functionality, using decorators
https://dev.to/kchawla_pi/using-a-decorators-to-solve-my-task-the-thinking--the-process-49f0

## Flattening a Nested list
https://www.lalogiadepython.com/2019/02/01/simplest-way-flatten-list-python/

## Understanding Instance, Class and Static Methods
https://realpython.com/instance-class-and-static-methods-demystified/

## Functions, classes or callables
http://treyhunner.com/2019/04/is-it-a-class-or-a-function-its-a-callable

## The difference between list.sort() vs sorted()
https://medium.com/@DahlitzF/list-sort-vs-sorted-list-aab92c00e17

## Overusing lambdas
https://treyhunner.com/2018/09/stop-writing-lambda-expressions/

## How to use Python’s min() and max() with nested lists
https://dbader.org/blog/python-min-max-and-nested-lists

## Top 10 mistakes that Python Developers make
https://www.toptal.com/python/top-10-mistakes-that-python-programmers-make

## Using None vs Unique Objects for validation
https://treyhunner.com/2019/03/unique-and-sentinel-values-in-python/
